In this video we're going to talk about choosing your title and the
two words I want you to keep in mind when you're writing your title is;
one, relevant and two, specific, okay.
Obviously it goes without saying that if you are a web developer,
you want to say that your web developing your title, if you're a designer,
you want to say that you're a designer in your title,
if you're a writer,
you want to have the words write in your title.
But what you need to do is also be specific.
If I put out web developer,
that's simply too broad.
The reason why that's too broad,
is because you have to have an understanding of your audience.
At least in the web development world,
if somebody is looking for a web developer,
they could be looking for a number of things.
Maybe they want somebody to build them a simple website built on WordPress.
Maybe they are looking for somebody who has
experience with a certain language or framework like say for instance,
a React. js Developer.
Calling yourself a web developer is just too broad,
and even calling yourself just a designer is to broad.
Are you designing UX, UI, web, graphics?
Make sure to be specific enough to the point
where you're covering that specific need that the client wants.
Again, this goes back to understanding your audience and understanding your focus.
This all goes back to your pitch,
what is it exactly that you're audience?
If you can answer that question,
that answer goes directly into your title.
Looking at my title here,
I've identified that I like working with
Australian clients and Australian clients like working with me.
That's like my audience right there and that's why I
put Australian at the start of my title.
Then I go into my main title or the core of my title,
which is WordPress developer,
and I could actually put in another word here,
Word press web developer but I think people get the point with WordPress developer.
I'm not saying I'm a web developer,
I'm going one step deeper and I'm being specific to the point
where I'm targeting people who want WordPress websites.
Which I feel is quite a good balance,
and it's done me well so far.
This extra bit here that I put in keywords that often go along with it.
I've heard of WordPress experts being referred to as theme experts.
The difference between developer and theme expert would be,
a WordPress developer can develop features and customized code,
whereas the theme expert is just somebody who knows how to use
WordPress and maybe can build a whole website and customize one without any use of code.
With this title, I'm telling people that I'm an Australian,
I can build on WordPress and I can
do basic stuff on WordPress as well and update the theme,
build them a website, all that stuff.
That is basically the framework to developing a good title.
You just want to be relevant and specific and talk
directly to what the client might be looking for.
Really guys, that's pretty much it,
keep it simple, be relevant and specific.
If you don't know how specific you want to go,
my guideline would be to choose a category that you're obviously in,
you should know your category by now and go one layer deeper.
We talked about specialization in a previous video,
if you're not sure what to specialize in,
just put what you did last time in there.
If you're a web developer and you did a WordPress website last,
specialize in WordPress for the time being.
You can always come back and change your title later.
Now before we wrap up this little lesson here,
I want to give you one more bit of advice and
it's something that I see some freelance is doing,
which I think is actually detrimental to their success.
What I'm going to do demonstrate this is click over into
the ''search box'' and search for WordPress in freelancer.
Once I get to the search results,
you can start to see some people doing what I like to call keyword stuffing.
If you look at Arti R here,
she has basically thrown words into a tidal.
It doesn't say I am WordPress developers specializing in,
or I am a WordPress developer with a particular focus on,
what it says instead is just the words WordPress, Joomla , HTML5,
Ccss3, she's even misspelled one of the terms here, CSS.
Probably that's why she's $0 on the platform and Bootstrap.
These are skills that she should definitely include in
her skills section but to keyword stuff these inner profile,
it's actually working in the sense that when I typed him WordPress,
she did come up,
she has done that part well in terms of including her keywords.
But as soon as the client sees this,
they need a WordPress website,
maybe they need a Joomla website,
but they probably don't need both at the same time.
I think it would help for her a lot to be a lot
more specific with what she offers clients.
Maybe she wants to say,
I do WordPress websites and Joomla websites but I don't think
you should go into five different things that you can do even if you are multi-skilled.
But I think at work you want to be as specific as possible because put it this way,
you've got to think in the mind of the client, right.
When they come to the search engine and
they're looking to find somebody to build them a WordPress site,
they're going to go down here and look for somebody who knows WordPress.
They're not necessarily going to care that you know Joomla,
and you know Bootstrap,
unless they're working with a theme that uses Bootstrap.
But essentially the question that you want to answer
in the mind of your prospective client is,
is this the relevant person for my job?
What your title has to do is communicate relevance.
Yes you want to put the right keywords in there,
but you don't want to keyword stuff.
You don't want to throw a bunch of different keywords in there,
trying to rank for all different jobs because you might rank for
all those different jobs but once the client comes to the search results,
they're probably going to go for somebody who's a bit more
specific to their specific need, okay.
To provide you a few other examples of other profiles that are doing this okay.
This guy Pablo K ,
expert Web Design with WordPress.
He's saying he's a web designer,
but he specializes in working with WordPress, that's great.
If I scroll down, there's a few that just say WordPress in their title,
I think that's specific enough,
but surely they can add in a few words saying,
I am a WordPress developer who enjoys this or something.
You don't want to use one word when you can
flush that out a bit and make it into a proper title.
That's all I'll say on titles,
guys, it's pretty simple,
just try and remember to be relevant and specific and
remember the experience of the user coming to Upwork,
searching for a freelancer,
and that's something that you should do throughout everything you do on Upwork.
Remember to think in terms of what the client sees, okay.
That's the title, in the next video,
we're going to go into the overview.